I'll now show you a
simple loss function
you can use in your
Siamese network.
Just as a recap,
this is the overall structure
of the Siamese network,
which enables you
to predict whether
two questions are
similar or different,
or the outputs of the network,
you are able to calculate y-hat,
which is the similarity
between the two questions.
Now, I'll show you a loss
function for a Siamese network.
I'll starts by looking
at this first question,
which is, "How old are you?"
I'll call this first
question the anchor,
which I'm going to use
to compare against
two other questions
relative to the anchor.
Other questions that
have the same meaning as
the anchor are called
positive questions.
Whereas questions
that do not have
the same meaning as
the anchor are called
negative questions.
Note that the meaning
of positive and
negative in the
context of finding
question duplicates is
referring to whether
a question is similar
to the anchor or not,
and not whether it has a
positive or negative sentiment.
The question, "What is your age?"
is considered a positive
question relative to the anchor,
because "How old are you?"
and "What is your age?"
mean the same thing.
This other question,
"Where are you from?"
is considered a negative
question because it
does not have the same meaning
as the anchor question.
Here's a definition of
cosine similarity
between two vectors.
That will be the
similarity of function
s. To train your model,
you'll be comparing
the vectors that are
outputs by each sub-network
using similarity.
So for this example,
you're going to take the
similarity between A and P,
where A refers to
the anchor question,
and P refers to the
positive question.
Similarity is bounded between
negative one and one.
So for vectors that are
completely different,
the similarity is
near negative one,
and for vectors that
are nearly identical,
there similarity is
close to positive one.
For a well-trained model,
you would like to see a
similarity close to one
when comparing the anchor
and the positive example.
Similarly, when
comparing the anchor
to the negative example,
a successful model should yield
a similarity close
to negative one.
To begin building
a loss function,
you start with the
similarity of A and N and
subtract the similarity of A
and P to calculate
the difference.
What you have here is a loss
function that allows you to
determine whether your model
is roughly doing what
you hope it will do.
Namely, finding
that the anchor and
the positive example are similar,
and that the anchor and
the negative example
are different.
As the difference gets bigger or
smaller along the x-axis,
the loss gets bigger or
smaller along the y-axis.
When minimizing the
loss in training,
you are in effect
minimizing this difference.
You've started seeing a
difference approach which will
allow you to build a
different cost function.
In the next video, I'll
introduce triplets.